---
blog: richard
comments: true
date: 2014-03-31 18:08:56+00:00
layout: post
title: Planning the Migration
image: /assets/images/jekyll.png
categories:
- Technology
- Jekyll
series: 
- Migrating to Jekyll
---

As mentioned in my previous [post], I recently decided it would be a good idea to move my blog away 
from [WordPress][wp] and onto [GitHub Pages][gp] making use of [Jekyll][jk], the static site
generator to simplify my site. I chose to do this for two simple reasons:

1. My blog is very simple so doesn't need the power of WordPress;
2. I can't resist tinkering with things.

Realistically, the latter was the biggest driver in my decision. I came across this new idea that
seemed interesting and decided to give it a go :-).

### Where to Start

First of all, I had to look at what was needed to setup a Jekyll site. There are so many tutorials
out there that this bit was easy. So I started by setting myself up a free development environment 
on [Nitrous.io][ni] and a Git [repository][re] at [GitHub][gh]. GitHub Pages also allowed me to
generate a basic sample site once I had completed setup of the repository. I thought this would be a
good way to get started but, it turns out I was wrong. Although the sample site generated by GitHub
Pages looked good, it was very basic and aimed specifically a site for your hosted code. I therefore
opted to start from scratch with a Jekyll setup.

### Setting Up Jekyll

Nitrous.io essentially gives you a linux based virtual machine with shell access that you can use as
a remote development environment. This allows you to work on your coding projects from anywhere
without having to worry about dependency issues on various different systems. So once I had setup an
account, all I had to do was log into the system and it was ready to go. I checked that the version
of [Ruby][rb] on the system was compatible with Jekyll, installed Jekyll and setup a new site. 

The new site generated by Jekyll includes the basic file structure for the site and a simple index
page. I overwrote the GitHub Pages generated site in my repository with this new site and then the
real work started. 

I wanted my site to be fairly similar to the existing one because I actually like the design, but I
also wanted it to be more responsive (i.e. I wanted it to display just as well on a mobile phone or
tablet as it does on a computer screen). So I started by created the basic layouts for the pages and
then crafted the styling on top. To ensure it was going to display properly on all devices, I opted
for a mobile first design with media queries to amend the site layout for larger screens. 

Once all that was complete, I had to start looking into how the convert my existing posts from
WordPress, but that will have to wait till next time :-).

[post]: {% post_url 2014-03-18-jekyll %} "Moving from WordPress to Jekyll"
[wp]: //wordpress.org/ "WordPress &#8250; Blog Tool, Publishing Platform, and CMS"
[gp]: //pages.github.com/ "GitHub Pages"
[jk]: //jekyllrb.com/ "Jekyll &bull; Simple, blog-aware, static sites"
[ni]: //nitrous.io/ "Nitrous.IO"
[re]: //github.com/richardp2/richardp2.github.io/ "richardp2/richardp2.github.io · GitHub"
[gh]: //github.com/ "GitHub"
[rb]: //ruby-lang.org/ "Ruby Programming Language"

[jkl]: /assets/images/jekyll.png "Jekyll Logo"