---
comments: true
date: 2014-07-26 07:03:12+00:00
layout: gallery
title: "Memories: China 2009"
categories:
- General
- Memories
series: 
- Travel Memories
photoset: 72157645497996239
images: 97
---

Following on from my post last month about the [Three Nations Expedition][3n], this post will explore
the travelling that followed.

When we signed up for the expedition, we decided that it would be a great stepping stone for further
travel across China. We contacted the [company][wx] that helped to organise the China section of the
[Three Nations Expedition][3n] to see if they were willing to help us organise a further 5 or 6
weeks travel. They were delighted to help and so the planning began. Where did we want to go, how
long did we want to spend in each place etc. After a couple of months, and numerous itinerary
revisions, we ended up with a plan we were happy with and that we thought we would be able to afford
:wink:.

Once the Scouting delegation left Beijing, it was time for us to begin our own adventures in China.
We stayed on in Beijing for a day's relaxation before embarking on our fully custom designed
travelling adventure :smile:. It was for this trip that we started the blog so you can read more
about what we did in each place on the travel blog:

 * [Lhasa, Tibet](//travel.perry-online.me.uk/tibet/lhasa/);
 * [Chengdu, Sichuan](//travel.perry-online.me.uk/china/chengdu/);
 * [Chongqing](//travel.perry-online.me.uk/china/chongqing/);
 * [Yangtze River Cruise to Three Gorges Dam](//travel.perry-online.me.uk/china/yangtze/);
 * [Shanghai](//travel.perry-online.me.uk/china/shanghai/);
 * [Guilin, Guangxi](//travel.perry-online.me.uk/china/guilin/);
 * [Li River & Yangshuo, Guangxi](//travel.perry-online.me.uk/china/yangshuo/);
 * [Hong Kong, S.A.R.](//travel.perry-online.me.uk/china/hong-kong/);
 * [Macau, S.A.R.](//travel.perry-online.me.uk/china/macau/).

This trip really was the experience of a lifetime. In total, we were travelling for 58 days, or
nearly 2 months. It's something that we may never get to do again (<small>although I hope I am wrong
about that :wink:</small>) but it was absolutely amazing. It is the one trip that we talk, and 
reminisce, about more than any other. We both want to go back to each place we visited again, as
well as many other new places in China. If nothing else, we want to show George some of the
amazing things that we saw :smile:.

[3n]: {% post_url 2014-06-29-three-nations-09 %} "Memories: Three Nations 2009"
[wx]: //www.wexas.com/ "Wexas Travel"