---
comments: true
date: 2014-03-18 19:30:00+00:00
layout: post
title: Moving from WordPress to Jekyll
image: /assets/images/jekyll.png
categories:
- Technology
- Jekyll
series: 
- Migrating to Jekyll
---

At the back end of last year, I started migrating my various coding projects
from [SVN] repositories stored on [Google Code][gc] to [Git] repositories stored
in multiple locations[^1]. I found two different places for hosting my new Git
repositories based on my specific needs. Firstly, the code for work needed to be
kept private, but the rest of my code didn't really matter. There is a lot of
choice out there, but I wasn't looking to part with any cash. Through a little
bit of research, I came across the following options that appealed to me:

1. [Bitbucket][bb] - which allows for unlimited public & private repositories,
   but a limited number of collaborators (5 user maximum);
2. [GitHub][gh] - which allows for unlimited public repositories only, and
   unlimited collaborators.

I decided that Bitbucket was the ideal candidate for all my private
repositories, but I decided to allow for some redundancy with the public ones.
I'm therefore using GitHub for my public repositories and backing them up/
duplicating them on Bitbucket. Finding GitHub also introduced me to something
else that I found quite interesting. [GitHub Pages][gp] is a hosting service
provided by GitHub that allows you to publish websites from your repository.
Not only that, but it works with something called [Jekyll][jk]. 

> Jekyll is a simple, blog-aware, static site generator. It takes a template
> directory containing raw text files in various formats, runs it through
> [Markdown][md] (or [Textile][tx]) and [Liquid][lq] converters, and spits out a
> complete, ready-to-publish static website suitable for serving with your
> favorite web server. Jekyll also happens to be the engine behind
> [GitHubPages][gp], which means you can use Jekyll to host your project’s
> page, blog, or website from GitHub’s servers **for free**.

This sounded like a brilliant idea to me so I therefore decided to move away
from [WordPress][wp] and try out Jekyll for myself. Now, don't get me wrong,
I still think WordPress is brilliant for what it is, but I've come to accept
that it is too much for me. All I actually use my website for is writing a
couple of blogs and displaying photos I have taken over the years. It is not
exactly a complicated set up.

I have now completed the migration of my [personal blog][pb] and I'm quite
happy with the results. I took the opportunity to modify the site theme and
this is what I've come up with. I hope you like it :smile:.

_For those that are interested, I am going to be publishing a series of posts
about my move from WordPress to Jekyll including how I overcame some of the
issues it presented. The full series will be available [here]._

[SVN]: //subversion.apache.org/ "Apache Subversion"
[gc]: //code.google.com/ "Google Code"
[Git]: //git-scm.com/ "Git"
[vcs]: //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Version_control "Revision Control | Wikipedia"
[bb]: //bitbucket.org/ "Bitbucket - Free source code hosting for Git and Mercurial by Bitbucket"
[gh]: //github.com/ "GitHub"
[gp]: //pages.github.com/ "GitHub Pages"
[jk]: //jekyllrb.com/ "Jekyll &bull; Simple, blog-aware, static sites"
[md]: //daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
[tx]: //textile.sitemonks.com/
[lq]: //wiki.shopify.com/Liquid/
[wp]: //wordpress.org/ "WordPress &#8250; Blog Tool, Publishing Platform, and CMS"
[pb]: //richard.perry-online.me.uk/ "Richard Perry | Just Another Blog About Nothing"
[here]: //richard.perry-online.me.uk/series/jekyll/ "Migrating to Jekyll"

[jkl]: /assets/images/jekyll.png "Jekyll Logo"

*[SVN]: Subversion

[^1]: 
    Both of these (_SVN & Git_) are [version control systems][vcs] used for
    the management of changes to documents. They are commonly used for coding
    projects to enable the tracking of changes and the ability to revert to a
    previous revision easily. My decision to change from one to another was
    purely out of curiosity and my inability to leave things well alone :smile:.
