---
date: 2014-04-15 07:36:28 +0000
title: Tweaking Jekyll to Suit My Needs
image: /assets/images/jekyll.png
tags:
- Technology
- Jekyll
series: 
- Migrating to Jekyll
---

This is going to be my last post on my Migration from [WordPress][wp] to [Jekyll][jk] 
(_I promise :blush:_). This week I am going to share with you some of the changes I've made, and
plugins I've adapted to get everything running the way it was (<small>ish</small>) in WordPress.
I've had to make a few changes to the site to suit the new system as well, but nothing major.

### Tags

You may have noticed (<small>but probably not really, that's kind of the point</small>) that there
are no longer any tags listed at the bottom of each post. Tags are a standard part of WordPress that
I embraced for no other reason than 'they were there'. Their purpose was to allow navigation between
posts of similar topics that were not necessarily in the same category. To be honest, I don't write
all that many posts, and I don't have thousands of people rading my blog so I decided they were
completely unnecessary and ditched them in the migration.

### Categories

I have also made a few changes to the categories. This is partially due to the way Jekyll handles
categories, and partially due to me wanting to rationlise it a bit. In Jekyll, posts cannot be linked
to multiple categories in the same way as WordPress. If there are multiple categories listed, they
become subcategories of each other. For this reason, I had to adjust some of them so that they
worked properly. For example, if an Instagram picture post included George, I filed it in both the
Photography category and the George category. In Jekyll, this results in the post being included in
the Photography/George (<small>or George/Photography depending on the order</small>) category, not
two separate ones.

Jekyll does not generate category pages for you, so I looked at a few options for achieving this.
Firstly, I made use of a standard plugin for generating the pages. I then made a few modifications
to the plugin to get a result I preferred, and finally I adopted part of the plugin for generating
the category list displayed at the top of each post and ditched the rest in favour of coding my own
category pages. The plugin I am now using looks a little bit like this:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/richardp2/8ac959cb93b6c716daa0f57513a99d00.js"></script>

### Pages

The way pages are organised in Jekyll is a little too messy for my liking so I have adopted a simple
plugin that will keep pages organised in the same way as posts. They sit in a folder called '_pages'
rather than in the root of the repository. This keeps the root folder tidier :smile:. The plugin was
written by Ben Baker-Smith and is available from [here][ppl]

### Draft Post Publishing

Also in Jekyll, drafts are kept separate in a '_drafts' folder, but there is no real way to handle 
them when they are ready to publish other than to move the file to the '_posts' folder and rename it
prior to deploying the update. This is not a difficult task, but there is a better way. [Rake][rk] 
is a build program that is used by a lot of web programmers to automate simple, but time consuming
tasks. This seemed to me to be the perfect solution, but my distinct lack of skills in [Ruby][rb] 
meant I had to start with [Google][gg]. This led me to a script by [Shane Burkhart][sb] that was
almost exactly what I wanted. With a few minor tweaks I ended up with this:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/richardp2/438a2dbb42b2d2b82d67638a833b37b9.js"></script>

This also led me to automating a load of different tasks to generally make my life easier. If you're
interested, you can view my full 'Rakefile' [here][myrk] (_this isn't used anymore so this is a link
to the last version of the Rakefile usaed by my site_).

### Series

My final tweak for the site was to reintroduce Post Series like I had on WordPress. The idea of a
series is that posts about the same topic (like this one) include a list of all the related posts at
the beginning of the post so that anyone reading it can refer back if they are interested. This is
again not a standard function of Jekyll, but with a bit of research I found a great plugin written
by [R.J. Lorimer][rjl] that was just what I needed. (As usual) I made a few modifications and this
is the result:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/richardp2/a1caf3b7875225850b0d34a48b85ac69.js"></script>

I combined this with a custom template for the series pages and now article series work better than
they did before :smile:. 

### Conclusion

Over the last couple of weeks, and previously the last couple of months, I've documented the process
I've gone through to migrate my blog from WordPress to Jekyll. Hopefully some of it has been
interesting to some people, but really I've written it as a reference for myself. 

I have very much enjoyed learning about Jekyll and how it works, as well as bits of a new
programming language, but mostly I've enjoyed tinkering with something that already works fine. I
feel that I am definitely a bit of a tinkerer, but there's no harm in it really, is there? :wink:

[wp]: //wordpress.org/ "WordPress &#8250; Blog Tool, Publishing Platform, and CMS"
[jk]: //jekyllrb.com/ "Jekyll &bull; Simple, blog-aware, static sites"
[rk]: //rake.rubyforge.org/ "Rake -- Ruby Make"
[rb]: //ruby-lang.org/ "Ruby Programming Language"
[gg]: //google.co.uk/ "Google"
[sb]: //www.shaneburkhart.me/ "Shane Burkhart"
[rjl]: //realjenius.com/ "Real Jenius"
[ppl]: //github.com/bbakersmith/jekyll-pages-directory "Jekyll Pages Plugin"
[myrk]: //github.com/richardp2/richardp2.github.io/blob/76db932f917ab1e3790d932ec22e00851e20d11f/Rakefile "My Old Rakefile Source"