---
title: I joined the circus
date: 2017-02-15 19:41:00 +00:00
tags:
- Circus
- Handbalancing
- Skills
image: https://c1.staticflickr.com/1/628/32361343966_f5c022aae3.jpg
---

{% flickr_image 32380155786 %}
Back in July last year, we went to see a performance called "[Block][blk]" at Raglan Castle. The
performance was a joint venture between [NoFit State Circus][nfs] and [Motionhouse][mh] and was
absolutely brilliant. It was at this point that I decided I was going to run away and join the
circus...well not quite. [NoFit State][nfs] run a number of community classes that anyone can join,
and they just so happened to have a Handbalancing class on a Monday night. This sounded like a great
idea so after looking into it, I decided that it could be good fun but not until after Cardiff Half
Marathon (I didn’t want it to affect my training).

{% flickr_image 32361343976 alignright %}
On 03 September, [NoFit State][nfs] held an open day at their facilities at the [Cardiff Central
Sports & Community Centre][ccscc] and that then sealed the deal. At my first opportunity after that,
I signed up to the October handbalancing classes starting the day after the Cardiff Half Marathon.
The plan was to do this for a month dropping one of my running sessions. However, I carried on to
the end of the year when we were given the bad news that our instructor was leaving for a warmer
climate :cry:. I think we were all a little bit disappointed, but I guess it means I can get back to
the running properly.

{% flickr_image 32074594274 %}
I knew the course would be fun, but I thought it would be of finite use, i.e. once I can do a proper
handstand then it’s just practice...surely?!?! How wrong I was. Handbalancing is not simply getting
the sense of balance for a handstand then trying variations. It is actually quite a complex and
nuanced art form that is absolutely fascinating to discover. Over the 2&frac12; months I was going
to the classes I learnt all sorts of different drills for handstands, one arm handstands (OAHs), one
and two arm elbow levers etc. I have learnt loads and I think I would keep learning new things if
the class was still running. Below are a couple of pictures of my handstands from before doing the
class, followed by a couple taken recently. This shows the huge improvements I have made in such a
short time.

### Before

{% flickr_photoset 72157676770802004 %}

### After

{% flickr_photoset 72157676770836134 %}

Obviously, I still have a lot of work to do so I have now resolved to keep training my handbalancing
with the aim that I can get a comfortable OAHs in the not too distant future. Also, if they start
the class again, I will more than likely rejoin the circus :wink:.

*[OAHs]: One Arm Handstand

[blk]: //www.nofitstate.org/block/
[nfs]: //www.nofitstate.org/
[mh]: //www.motionhouse.co.uk/
[ccscc]: //www.cardiffcentralyouthclub.co.uk/
