---
title: Learning to Juggle
date: 2017-03-26 22:29:00 +01:00
tags:
- Circus
- Skills
- Epic Quest
image: https://c1.staticflickr.com/3/2903/33538103551_d81bdd9f7e_m.jpg
series:
- My Epic Quest
---

{% flickr_image 33538103551 %}
I have wanted to learn to juggle for years but, for various reasons, I never got around
to actually putting the effort in that's required. I tried a couple of times on an ad hoc
basis but never really got anywhere. When I got around to putting together
["My Epic Quest"][eq] I added "Learn to juggle" to the list. Well, last year Rosie &
George decided to give me a bit more encouragement and bought me a set of juggling balls
for my birthday :smiley:.

This time I didn't want to let George down so I put in the effort and practised everyday.
The first day was pretty horrific, I managed to hit myself with the balls more than
actually catch them! Each day got a little easier and by the end of the first week I was
managing to catch 10 throws in a row on about 3 out of every 5 attempts. I was really
pleased with how quickly I was learning this skill and it gave me the motivation to keep
going.

By the end of September I was able to juggle consistently every time. Alright, so I still
hadn't quite got the hang of finishing a set properly and kept dropping the balls to
finish, but I think I can safely say that I can now juggle :smiley:. 

{% flickr_image 33667792065 alignright %}
I now do a little juggling most days and actually find it quite relaxing. I have recently
started trying to juggle clubs, but I haven't put in the consistent effort with that yet,
so it may take a while to get the hang of it.


[eq]: {% post_url 2013-03-10-epic-quest %} "My Epic Quest"